---
layout: "post"
title: "Welcome   "
date: "2012-05-15 08:16:47"
author: "Cyrille Fauvel"
categories:
  - "Autodesk"
  - "Cyrille Fauvel"
original_url: "https://around-the-corner.typepad.com/adn/2012/05/welcome.html "
typepad_basename: "welcome"
typepad_status: "Publish"
---

<p>Welcome to “Around the Corner”, a blog dedicated to plug-in developers working with Maya, MotionBuilder, FBX and any other technology that strikes our fancy at the moment of blogging. This blog is maintained by Cyrille Fauvel and Kristine Middlemiss, who are 2/6’s of the Media &amp; Entertainment worldwide team of API gurus providing technical services through the Autodesk Developer Network.</p>
<p>When either of us comes across some information on programming for Autodesk technologies that we think you’ll be interested in, then you can expect it to be posted here. That will be technical (how-to) solutions derived from answering questions from ADN partners and from Autodesk forum users, sample projects, white papers screencasts, conference presentation material, and other information derived from our work. This blog is a vehicle to put lots of up to date information in one place so you can easily find what you need to solve your programming problems.</p>
<p>Here is some information about us…</p>
<p>[Cyrille Fauvel]… A little about Cyrille… I have worked with a number of Autodesk’s products and APIs over the years – my background is mainly with AutoCAD and Maya’s APIs, but I’ve also spent some serious time with RealDWG, AutoCAD OEM, Inventor and FBX (as well as with MapGuide, 3ds Max but that’s going back a bit :-). These days a good portion of my time is spent on team coordination and business development, but I do still get involved in technical issues on a regular basis (and even answer the odd support question coming in from an ADN member).</p>
<p>[Kristine Middlemiss]…Most often sitting in Toronto’s Autodesk office, I get the unique opportunity to be somewhat of a jack of all trades to the Media &amp; Entertainment API world! &#0160;What I mean by this is I get to do all the things I love; coding, educating, supporting, mentoring, writing, organizing, and most importantly talking J I am pretty excited about starting this blog, and sharing with you what I know, what I don’t know, and all the things in-between.&#0160; I recently saw on a friends Facebook page this quote by Einstein which stuck with me because I feel it’s so true: “If you can’t explain it simply, you don’t understand it well enough”, this will be my motto for all my blog posts, wish me luck!</p>
<p>If you have suggestions for interesting topics to cover in this blog, please feel free to contact us at <a href="mailto:aroundthecorner@autodesk.com">aroundthecorner@autodesk.com</a>. Neither our blog nor our email accounts should be considered channels for receiving support, however, and we make no guarantees that we will be able to address topics that are proposed. But please do feel free to drop us a line.</p>
