---
layout: "post"
title: "Autodesk is hiring an API evangelist in Shanghai or Beijing!"
date: "2014-07-06 07:55:52"
author: "Xiaodong Liang"
categories: []
original_url: "https://adndevblog.typepad.com/cloud_and_mobile/2014/07/autodesk-is-hiring-an-api-evangelist-in-shanghai.html "
typepad_basename: "autodesk-is-hiring-an-api-evangelist-in-shanghai"
typepad_status: "Publish"
---

<p>By <a href="http://adndevblog.typepad.com/aec/xiaodong-liang.html" target="_self">Xiaodong Liang</a></p>  <p>This is an exciting opportunity to be part of Developer Technical Service (DevTech), Autodesk. The location is in <font color="#232323"><strong>Shanghai or Beijing</strong></font>. </p>  <p>This position is to provide consulting services to worldwide Autodesk Developer Network (ADN) members and developers of third-party applications based on APIs of Autodesk products and Autodesk Cloud Platforms. Use knowledge of Autodesk products and their APIs to assist customers with their API-related issues and business objectives of providing value-added software/solutions. Responsible for evangelizing Autodesk technology to support the growth of the network, to help Autodesk partners become successful and to positively impact Autodesk’s business. Develop technical content for the ADN program including technical notes, whitepapers, videos etc. Provide technical assistance including software design, customization, integration, orientation/training and technical problem resolution. Develop and deliver training courses, webcasts or presentations externally to customers. Work closely with engineering to ensure appropriate resolution of issues impacting customer satisfaction.</p>  <p>Those who work or study abroad and want to pursue their career in China are also welcome! </p>  <p><strong>Requirements</strong>    <br />. A bachelors&#39; degree or higher in computer science, engineering or related field.    <br />. Love programming. Intelligent mind and ability to quickly learn new software with enthusiasm    <br />. Good English ability.     <br />. At least 2 years hands-on programming experience. (including time in University)    <br />. Skillful in at least one language of programming    <br />. Good skills of communication with customers.    <br />. Good team player: Easy to work with team members across various cultures.    <br />. Ability of presenting fluently in public.</p>  <p>   <br /><strong>Preferred Qualifications     <br /></strong>. Experience or comprehensive knowledge of web programming.&#0160;&#0160;&#0160;&#0160;&#0160;&#0160;&#0160;&#0160;&#0160;&#0160;&#0160;&#0160;&#0160;&#0160;&#0160; <br />. Experience of industry (building or manufacturing) background is a good value.    <br />.Experience of programming on AutoCAD or Revit or other products is a great value.    <br />.Cloud programming technologies, such as Amazon, Azure etc.(experience or willing to learn)    <br />Mobile programming technologies, such as Android, iOS etc. (experience or willing to learn)    <br />    <br />If you think you are qualified to this position, please contact us. Send your resume, anything else that you view as interesting for us to know to: <a href="Xiaodong.liang@autodesk.com">Xiaodong.liang@autodesk.com</a>&#0160; , Thanks!</p>
