---
layout: "post"
title: "Naming conventions for anonymous blocks"
date: "2012-09-11 02:28:00"
author: "Xiaodong Liang"
categories:
  - "AutoCAD"
  - "Xiaodong Liang"
original_url: "https://adndevblog.typepad.com/autocad/2012/09/naming-conventions-for-anonymous-blocks.html "
typepad_basename: "naming-conventions-for-anonymous-blocks"
typepad_status: "Publish"
---

<p>By <a href="http://adndevblog.typepad.com/autocad/xiaodong-liang.html" target="_self">Xiaodong Liang</a></p>
<p><strong>Issue     <br /></strong>Is there a standard naming convention for anonymous blocks (block table records)?</p>
<p><a name="section2"></a></p>
<p><strong>Solution     <br /></strong>AutoCAD and other Autodesk programs implement an anonymous block naming scheme where an asterisk is used as a prefix followed by a letter indicating the type of object. For example, &quot;X&quot; is used for hatches, &quot;D&quot; is used for unused dimensions, and &quot;U&quot; is used for anonymous blocks.</p>
<p>One way to create an anonymous block is to set its name to be an asterisk. AutoCAD then automatically generates a name using the syntax &quot;*Unnn&quot; where the letter n represents a digit.</p>
<p>There aren&#39;t any stringent rules that uphold this naming convention. Anonymous blocks are not always named with an asterisk followed by a fixed letter that designates the type of object. The crucial factor in how a name is assigned is the setting of the first bit of group code 70 of the block, which is accessible and easily designated by coding in ADSRX, such as ads_entmake or acdbEntMake) or AutoLISP, such as entmake.</p>
<p>The following is an excerpt from the ObjectARX help reference manual that explains the naming of anonymous blocks at a finer level:</p>
<p>&quot;<em>The block definitions table in a drawing can contain anonymous blocks. Anonymous blocks are created to support hatch patterns and associative dimensioning. They can also be created by entmake for the application&#39;s own purposes, usually to contain entities that the user cannot access directly.</em></p>
<p><em>The group code 2 (block name) of a dimension entity is optional for the entmake function. If the block name is omitted from the entity definition list, AutoCAD creates a new one. Otherwise, AutoCAD creates the dimension using the name provided.</em></p>
<p><em>The name (group 2) of an anonymous block is *Unnn, where nnn is a number generated by AutoCAD. Also, the low-order bit of an anonymous block&#39;s Block type flag (group 70) is set to 1. When entmake creates a block whose name begins with * and whose anonymous bit is set, AutoCAD treats this as an anonymous block and assigns it a name. Characters following the * in the name string passed to entmake are ignored.&quot;</em></p>
