---
layout: "post"
title: "Welcome"
date: "2012-02-14 13:04:59"
author: "Madhukar Moogala"
categories:
  - "Stephen Preston"
original_url: "https://adndevblog.typepad.com/autocad/2012/02/welcome.html "
typepad_basename: "welcome"
typepad_status: "Publish"
---

<p>By <a href="http://adndevblog.typepad.com/autocad/stephen-preston.html" target="_self">Stephen Preston</a></p>
<p>Welcome to our ADN DevBlog for AutoCAD and other cross market technologies from Autodesk. This blog is maintained by the Developer Technical Services (DevTech) team - the worldwide team of API gurus providing technical services through the Autodesk Developer Network.&#0160;<br /><br />Whenever any of us comes across some information on programming for Autodesk technology that we think you’ll be interested in, then you can expect it to be posted here. That will be technical (how-to) solutions derived from answering questions from ADN partners and from Autodesk forum users, sample projects, white papers, screencasts, conference presentation material, and other information derived from our work. This blog is a vehicle to quickly put lots of up to date information in one place so you can easily find what you need to solve your programming problems. Don’t expect poetry and prose – just good, old-fashioned hard facts.<br /><br />Every member of the DevTech team will be posting information here – and lots of it. Follow us on Twitter, RSS, or just visit us when you need to browse or search for specific information. You’re very welcome to post additional information on topics or ask questions in the comments section for any blog post you’re interested in.<br /><br />Watch out for our other DevBlogs coming very soon if you’re interested in programming for Autodesk products in the AEC, Manufacturing, Infrastructure, or Media &amp; Entertainment domains.</p>
