---
layout: "post"
title: "Welcome"
date: "2006-06-19 22:59:55"
author: "Kean Walmsley"
categories: []
original_url: "https://www.keanw.com/2006/06/welcome.html "
typepad_basename: "welcome"
typepad_status: "Publish"
---

<p>Welcome to “Through the Interface”, a blog dedicated to programmers working with Autodesk technologies. My team, Autodesk’s Developer Technical Services (DevTech), provides technical services to members of the Autodesk Developer Network (ADN), including programming support, consulting, training and evangelism. I’ll be using this blog to share technical information about the use of our various Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) and component technologies. Members of DevTech are experts on a wide range of Autodesk’s products and APIs, so many of these posts will be contributed by members of my team.</p>

<p>A little about myself… I have worked with a number of Autodesk’s products and APIs over the years – my background is mainly with AutoCAD’s APIs, but I’ve also spent some serious time with RealDWG, AutoCAD OEM and ADT (as well as with WorkCenter and World, but that’s going back a bit :-). These days a good portion of my time is spent on team coordination, but I do still get involved in technical issues on a regular basis (and even answer the odd support question coming in from an ADN member).</p>

<p>If you have suggestions for interesting topics to cover in this blog, please feel free to contact me at <a href="mailto:kean.walmsley@autodesk.com">kean.walmsley@autodesk.com</a>. Neither my blog nor my email account should be considered channels for receiving support, however, and I make no guarantees that we will be able to address topics that are proposed. But please do feel free to drop me a line. </p>
