---
layout: "post"
title: "Update from AU 2009 and December&rsquo;s Plugin of the Month"
date: "2009-12-02 15:38:34"
author: "Kean Walmsley"
categories:
  - "AU"
  - "Plugin of the Month"
original_url: "https://www.keanw.com/2009/12/update-from-au-2009-and-decembers-plugin-of-the-month.html "
typepad_basename: "update-from-au-2009-and-decembers-plugin-of-the-month"
typepad_status: "Publish"
---

<p>Well, so far, so good! We had a great ADN session on Monday, before AU proper kicked off yesterday. Lots of opportunities to talk with old friends and new. It’s always fun to find out what people are doing with our technology and hopefully to help address some of the snags they’ve hit along the way.</p>  <p>Yesterday started with Albert Szilvasy’s .NET 4.0 session, which showed some great techniques for implementing script execution in AutoCAD and tied in very well with the session I’m presenting today on IronPython and IronRuby. I then went off to record my AU Virtual session on F# (recording the session allows the presenter to be available for online Q&amp;A during the broadcast slots – it’s going to be a little strange seeing myself on video, I have to admit, but I feel the recording went pretty well, all things considered. I’m looking forward to seeing what questions people come up with). The day’s sessions closed with an “Ask the Experts” session on AutoCAD APIs (another chance to reconnect with old friends), although with one thing and another I missed out on attending the majority of the keynote sessions I was interested in: I had to duck out early of the general keynote and couldn’t even get to the AutoCAD &amp; M&amp;E keynote, where <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jon_Landau_(film_producer)">Jon Landau</a> gave a behind-the-scenes view of <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Cameron">James Cameron</a>’s upcoming ground-breaking movie, <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avatar_(2009_film)">Avatar</a>. I really wish I could have made that, but then you can’t be everywhere (a classic AU problem).</p>  <p>I had dinner in the exhibit hall before heading across to the highly entertaining Design Slam event, where Carl Bass, Buzz Kross and Phil Bernstein competed live to solve some design challenges with their favourite Autodesk products.</p>  <p>I’m up early again today, though, which is getting a little frustrating (I’ve barely travelled this year, so I suspect my body is no longer used to dealing with jetlag). I woke on Monday at 4:30am, yesterday at 3:30am and today at 4:45am. Which means three nights of around 4-5 hours each, which is going to take its toll, at some point. Although I’m getting up for a 6am broadcast of my AUv session, tomorrow, which means it’s a little late to think about adjusting.</p>  <p>On an unrelated topic, I’ve just seen that Scott <a href="http://labs.blogs.com/its_alive_in_the_lab/2009/12/december-plugin-of-the-month-layer-reporter-for-autocad.html">has pushed the Layer Reporter plugin live on Labs</a>, so please go <a href="http://labs.autodesk.com/utilities/ADN_plugins">over there and check it out</a>. Be sure to <a href="mailto:labs.plugins@autodesk.com">let us know if you have any feedback</a>.</p>
