---
layout: "post"
title: "Turing test for live bank chat (failed)"
date: "2009-11-11 18:18:07"
author: "Kean Walmsley"
categories:
  - "Personal"
original_url: "https://www.keanw.com/2009/11/turing-test-for-live-bank-chat-failed.html "
typepad_basename: "turing-test-for-live-bank-chat-failed"
typepad_status: "Publish"
---

<p><em>Important note: If you’re only interested in programming-related posts (rather than those related to interpersonal or possibly human-computer interaction) <strong>please</strong> <strong>stop reading</strong>.</em></p>  <p>I lived in the US between 2000 and 2003, and have since kept a bank account there which – among other things – makes online shopping easier, on occasion. Anyway, my bank over there (which shall remain nameless) has recently changed their policy regarding my account, as my salary is being paid elsewhere: basically they wanted to start charging me a $9.95 monthly fee. I phoned the bank and negotiated a fee waiver for the coming 12 months, so I could then decide whether to transfer across the $1,500 minimum to keep the account fee-free or to just close it and move my few remaining dollars elsewhere.</p>  <p>Today I received a letter saying my account was overdrawn (oh, and that the letter was costing me $35, which makes me even more overdrawn… just like those dratted emails you get to say your inbox is over-quota… &lt;sigh&gt;). I checked online, and – sure enough – I’ve been getting charged monthly fees and (now) overdraft fees.</p>  <p>It being Veteran’s Day (and the middle of the night, California time), I decided to give their online chat a whirl. With very interesting results that I simply couldn’t resist sharing. This isn’t the first chat I’d started with one of the bank’s online specialists: I’d previously got quite far into the discussion with someone called Caleb, but the browser-based chat window somehow navigated back to the previous page as I was typing (probably due to user error, but at the time I thought I’d hit the backspace key).</p>  <p>Before we move on to the chat itself, here is my question to you. If this chat were a <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turing_test">Turing test</a>, would you declare Cassandra human or computer? From my side I’m even now not sure whether I was communicating with a human that was having trouble deploying canned responses or a mildly deranged bot. Comments welcome.</p>  <p>&#160;</p>  <p><em>Welcome to an online chat session at Bank X. Please hold while we connect you to the next available Bank X Online Banking Specialist. Your chat may be monitored and recorded for quality purposes. Your current wait time is approximately 0 minutes. Thank you for your patience.</em><em>      <br />Thank you for choosing Bank X. You are now being connected to a Bank X Online Banking Specialist.</em></p>  <p><em><strong>Cassandra:</strong> Thank You for being a Valued Bank X Customer, I am Cassandra, specialist in personal checking and savings accounts opened in California, may I have your Full Name as on Bank Statement &amp; last four digits of your account number?       <br /></em><strong>Kean: </strong>Kean Walmsley, xxxx     <br /><em><strong>Cassandra: </strong>Thank you, Kean.       <br /><strong>Cassandra: </strong>Good morning!       <br /><strong>Cassandra: </strong>Please let me know how may I assist you today?       <br /></em><strong>Kean: </strong>I started a chat with Caleb, but when I use the backspace key the chat closed. :-(     <br /><strong>Kean: </strong>I have some issues with unwarranted charges on my account     <br /><em><strong>Cassandra: </strong>I am sorry to know that. Please do not worry. I will try my best to help you.       <br /></em><strong>Kean: </strong>I was informed by Bank X some time ago of a change in policy related to my account     <br /><em><strong>Cassandra: </strong>As I understand that there are some unauthorized transactions on your account am I correct in understanding this?       <br /></em><strong>Kean: </strong>I now live in Switzerland, so only keep my Bank X account open in case I come back to the US     <br /><strong>Kean: </strong>Not unauthorized, as such     <br /><strong>Kean: </strong>Account fees + overdraft fees (because of the account fees)     <br /><strong>Kean: </strong>I spoke with Bank X a few months ago, and they agree to waive the fees on my account for the next year     <br /><em><strong>Cassandra: </strong>I understand your concern regarding the fees.       <br /><strong>Cassandra: </strong>I will surely check this for you.       <br /><strong>Cassandra: </strong>Please give me a moment while I access your account.       <br /><strong>Cassandra: </strong>Thank you for your patience, Kean.       <br /><strong>Cassandra: </strong>As you are promised that your account will be reverse with the account fees, I will be able to refund you the $9.95 fees.       <br /></em><strong>Kean: </strong>And the two $35 overdraft fees?     <br /><em><strong>Cassandra: </strong>As you are a valued Bank X customer Let me check what best I can do for you.       <br /><strong>Cassandra: </strong>I see that your account is overdrawn on 10/26 for the amount of $55.65.       <br /><strong>Cassandra: </strong>As there were no funds in your account your account is assessed with the fees.       <br /></em><strong>Kean: </strong>The amount of $55.65 took me overdrawn by $25 or so, part of which was due to the $10 fees I was being charged     <br /><strong>Kean: </strong>As I said, I access/use this account very rarely, so was not aware of going overdrawn by $15     <br /><strong>Kean: </strong>But I've since received $70 in fees for that $15     <br /><strong>Kean: </strong>Plus the account fees     <br /><em><strong>Cassandra: </strong>Yes, I do understand your concern here, Kean.       <br /><strong>Cassandra: </strong>Let me check what best I can do for you at this point oftime.       <br /><strong>Cassandra: </strong>After close review of your accounts I am unable to refund you the fee of $70.00 overdraft fees to your account and also the monthly fees to your account. Trust me I really tried my best to in refunding you the fee. </em>    <br /><em><strong>Cassandra: </strong>May I proceed with the refund to your account?       <br /></em><strong>Kean: </strong>What are you going to refund?     <br /><em><strong>Cassandra: </strong>I am refunding you $70.00 overdraft fees to your account.       <br /><strong>Cassandra: </strong>And also the monthly fees of $9.95 to your account.       <br /></em><strong>Kean: </strong>That's great: I'm confused because you just said you couldn't     <br /><em><strong>Cassandra: </strong>I am sorry for the confusion.       <br /></em><strong>Kean: </strong>Please go ahead with the refund     <br /><em><strong>Cassandra: </strong>I literally tried my best in refunding you the fees, Kean. Trust me.       <br /><strong>Cassandra: </strong>I have successfully applied $70.00 refund to your account and also the $9.95 to your account. Please allow 2 business days for the refund to post your account. </em>    <br /><strong>Kean: </strong>I was charged multiple $9.95 fees (one around 9/26 and one on a month later).     <br /><strong>Kean: </strong>Will I continue to be charged on a monthly basis?     <br /><em><strong>Cassandra: </strong>I see that you have a Standard checking account it requires minimum daily balance of $1,500.00. And the monthly fees is charged for the amount of $9.95 if you do not maintain this balance.       <br /><strong>Cassandra: </strong>I will be able to refund you the two months account fees for you.       <br /></em><strong>Kean: </strong>Thank you     <br /><em><strong>Cassandra: </strong>You are welcome.       <br /></em><strong>Kean: </strong>I understand about the $1,500 minimum: I was told I would have 12 months to decide whether to transfer the money or to close the account    <br /><strong>Kean: </strong>They said they would apply some waiver to the fees for those 12 months     <br /><strong>Kean: </strong>I assume that has not happened     <br /><em><strong>Cassandra: </strong>I see that there is no waiver on your account thus the reason your account is assessed with the fees.       <br /><strong>Cassandra: </strong>I have a suggestion for you.       <br /><strong>Cassandra: </strong>May I?       <br /></em><strong>Kean: </strong>Sure     <br /><em><strong>Cassandra: </strong>I see that you have a good account history with us. Based on your account history with us they will be able to place a waiver on your account. Once the waiver is placed on your account your account will not be assessed with any fee.       <br /></em><strong>Kean: </strong>That'd be great     <br /><em><strong>Cassandra: </strong>Usually you need to visit the Banking center to get the wavier placed on your account.       <br /><strong>Cassandra: </strong>As you are out of U.S.A I will be able to help you with the branch number who will be able to place a waiver on your account.       <br /><strong>Cassandra: </strong>May I help you with the Branch number for you?       <br /></em><strong>Kean: </strong>If you could give me the San Rafael branch, I can call them directly.     <br /><em><strong>Cassandra: </strong>Yes, yes. I was talking about the same. I will help you with the San Rafael branch.       <br /><strong>Cassandra: </strong>The branch number is 415-555-5555.       <br /></em><strong>Kean: </strong>Thank you. Are they closed today for Veteran's Day?     <br /><em><strong>Cassandra: </strong>Yes, they are closed today, I request you to please contact them tomorrow.       <br /><strong>Cassandra: </strong>I personally apologize for all this trouble, Kean.       <br /></em><strong>Kean: </strong>That's fine - I appreciate your help with the refunds.     <br /><em><strong>Cassandra: </strong>I thank you for your understanding in this matter.&#160;&#160;&#160; <br /><strong>Cassandra: </strong>I have successfully applied $70.00 refund and the account fees for you. Please allow 2 business days for the refund to post your account.       <br /><strong>Cassandra: </strong>Is there anything else I may assist you with?       <br /></em><strong>Kean: </strong>That is all, thank you again.     <br /><em><strong>Cassandra: </strong>We certainly give in our best when it comes to customers like you.       <br /><strong>Cassandra: </strong>Bye! Take care! Have a great day!!       <br /></em><em><strong>Cassandra: </strong>Have a wonderful time and keep smiling!!</em></p>
