---
layout: "post"
title: "DevLabs reminder"
date: "2009-05-26 16:09:10"
author: "Kean Walmsley"
categories:
  - "AutoCAD"
  - "Debugging"
  - "Training"
original_url: "https://www.keanw.com/2009/05/devlabs-reminder.html "
typepad_basename: "devlabs-reminder"
typepad_status: "Publish"
---

<p>Just a quick reminder about <a href="http://through-the-interface.typepad.com/through_the_interface/2009/04/introducing-devlabs.html">the DevLabs my team is running</a>, the first of which is being held next week in our UK office.</p>  <p>Here’s some additional information that was sent out in a recent technical newsletter for ADN members:</p>  <p><em>If you don’t have time to attend a training class, but you value the opportunity to work on your code with the help of an Autodesk expert, then DevLab is for you. Bring your laptop to our FREE DevLab and work on your code as you normally – the difference is that you have a team of DevTech experts (the same people who provide API support, training and consulting to ADN members) available to review your code, answer your questions, and make suggestions. Stay at DevLab for a week, or just for one or two days – you’re free to come and go as you please. (And did we mention it was FREE?).</em></p>  <p><em>If you are confused about what DevLabs are all about, here are some sample use cases:</em></p>  <ol>   <li><em>You have new requirements for your product but you are unsure of what direction to take or which technology to use. You need to ask questions and then take time to think once you get the answers in order to decide what direction you want to take. Setting up a full Mentoring engagement is too much for your particular requirements. Perhaps you have a few questions that you need to describe in person early on and once answered, you can continue your investigation and your everyday work; but then again, after some time in carrying on with your work, you may get stuck and require further consultation. Feel free to sit in a DevLabs session and either work as normal or ask questions.</em></li>    <li><em>You are developing new features in your product, coding as you go. You know how to do most of the development required, but you just get stuck on certain details because you are unfamiliar with the technology. These things can take a lot of time to research! You know that if you ask a question and get an answer, you will be able to continue programming until you get stuck again and then require more direct consultation.</em></li>    <li><em>You are looking for a chance to meet and share ideas with Autodesk experts and other programmers, but you are very busy and just can’t justify spending time at a conference or specific training class. You want to be able to get on with your normal work, but at the same time, benefit from being able to discuss issues that you or other developers encounter. It’s totally up to you when you ask for help, or listen in. If you just sit and work on your own thing for the whole time, that’s fine.</em></li> </ol>  <p>Our trial DevLabs are:</p>  <ul>   <li>Farnborough, UK</li>    <ul>     <li>June 1–5, AutoCAD and Autodesk Inventor APIs</li>   </ul>    <li>San Francisco, USA</li>    <ul>     <li>June 22–26, AutoCAD APIs</li>   </ul>    <li>Bangalore, India</li>    <ul>     <li>September 8–11, Geospatial and Revit APIs</li>      <li>September 14-17, AutoCAD and Autodesk Inventor APIs</li>   </ul>    <li>Beijing, China</li>    <ul>     <li>August 17–21, AutoCAD and Autodesk Inventor APIs</li>      <li>August 24–28, Geospatial and Revit APIs </li>   </ul> </ul>  <p>Email <a href="mailto:dev-consult@autodesk.com">dev-consult@autodesk.com</a> for more information or to register.    </p>
