---
layout: "post"
title: "Thinking about AU 2012 (and vacation)"
date: "2012-07-06 05:44:00"
author: "Kean Walmsley"
categories:
  - "AU"
  - "Autodesk"
  - "Mobile"
  - "Personal"
  - "SaaS"
  - "Training"
  - "WinRT"
original_url: "https://www.keanw.com/2012/07/thinking-about-au-2012-and-vacation.html "
typepad_basename: "thinking-about-au-2012-and-vacation"
typepad_status: "Publish"
---

<p>Last week, I received confirmation that I’ll be presenting a few different classes at <a href="http://au.autodesk.com/?nd=e2012_event&amp;und=857" target="_blank">AU 2012</a>, which will be held at the <a href="http://www.mandalaybay.com" target="_blank">Mandalay Bay Hotel</a> in <a href="http://lasvegasnevada.gov" target="_blank">Las Vegas</a> from November 27-28. My main sessions, this year, are in some way focused on cloud &amp; mobile technologies.</p>  <p>The subject matter of the first lecture is the recently completed <a href="http://through-the-interface.typepad.com/through_the_interface/2012/06/cloud-mobile-series-summary.html" target="_blank">cloud &amp; mobile series</a>, where we’ll look at moving desktop functionality to the cloud and using it from a variety of mobile environments:</p>  <p><strong>CP1914 – Moving code to the cloud – it’s easier than you think!</strong></p>  <p>It has a companion roundtable session – which I believe is scheduled to happen directly after it – that will hopefully be broader (and with plenty of relevant input from participants).</p>  <p><strong>CP4342-R – Cloud and mobile developer round-table</strong></p>  <p>The second lecture is going to look at the <a href="http://through-the-interface.typepad.com/through_the_interface/2012/03/a-simple-mru-browser-for-autocad-data-using-winrt.html" target="_blank">MetroCAD</a> <a href="http://through-the-interface.typepad.com/through_the_interface/2012/03/implementing-contracts-in-the-autocad-mru-browser-using-winrt.html" target="_blank">browser</a> <a href="http://through-the-interface.typepad.com/through_the_interface/2012/04/adding-snapping-to-the-autocad-mru-browser-using-winrt.html" target="_blank">application</a> I wrote for Windows 8 (and will, of course, go into some detail on WinRT and writing Metro-style applications). I may also talk a little about creating a 3D WinRT application (which will be covered primarily in the first lecture).</p>  <p><strong>CP1921 – Developing a simple Metro-style application for Windows 8</strong></p>  <p>Similar to the last few years, I’ll also be part of two panel sessions…</p>  <p><strong>CP1482 – AutoCAD – Meet the Experts</strong></p>  <p><strong>CP3573 – AutoCAD Programming Gurus Go Head to Head</strong></p>  <p>The first is a general Q&amp;A with AutoCAD experts (and I have it on good authority that there’ll be a few new faces from Autodesk in attendance, this year – more than just the “usual suspects” :-).</p>  <p>The second is a fun – and challenging – session where the panel gets thrown a set of 10 questions by the audience, and basically have the duration of the session to present solutions (or guidance on how to do so).</p>  <p>Although the “call for proposals” has now closed for physical AU sessions, it’s possible <a href="http://autode.sk/MYfv1j" target="_blank">to submit class proposals for AU Virtual until August 3rd</a>. (It’s likely I’ll also be presenting a virtual session, this year – more on that later, should it end up happening.)</p>  <p>Right, that’s about it from me for the month of July…</p>  <p>Tomorrow is Autodesk’s annual football (yes, meaning soccer) tournament in Europe. This year, it’s being hosted in Switzerland, which is going to make travel much more straightforward. :-) In recent years, I’ve played for a divisional team – largely made up of members of the ADN organisation – but given my recent change of role I’ve opted to play for one of the local teams, giving me the chance to train with the team for which I’ll be playing. In theory, the team I’m part of is our second team (called Dynamo Helvetia and made up of players who want to play for the love of the game, rather than the glory ;-), but during our most recent practice match we gave our first team (Sparta Helvetia) a pretty good run for their money. Besides the two Swiss teams, we’ll have players coming in from all over Europe and the US. It should be a fun tournament!</p>  <p>After that, we’re heading off on holiday for three weeks, visiting friends and family in France and the UK (although hopefully we won’t regret hitting the London area as the Olympics starts – fingers crossed). I may be able to post the odd update from the road – and do have the odd post queued up, to keep some information trickling through – but please don’t expect me to respond to comments or emails until I’m back in August.</p>
