---
layout: "post"
title: "AU2014: Class proposals and advance passes"
date: "2014-05-07 15:33:06"
author: "Kean Walmsley"
categories:
  - "AU"
  - "AutoCAD"
  - "Autodesk"
  - "JavaScript"
original_url: "https://www.keanw.com/2014/05/au2014-class-proposals-and-advance-passes.html "
typepad_basename: "au2014-class-proposals-and-advance-passes"
typepad_status: "Publish"
---

<p>After a minor technical glitch, I’ve now been able to submit two class proposals for Autodesk University 2014. Both are currently planned as 90-minute lectures.</p>  <p>The first is about AutoCAD’s JavaScript API:</p>  <blockquote>   <h4>Connect AutoCAD to the web with HTML5 and JavaScript</h4>    <p><em>AutoCAD 2015's JavaScript API enables a whole new generation of web-enabled applications. This session focuses on how you can use this API to connect web-based applications with AutoCAD. We'll look at how HTML5 can be used to implement user interface components inside AutoCAD – modal &amp; modeless dialogs, palettes and new document windows – including calling into core AutoCAD capabilities and custom .NET/C++ code via JavaScript. To illustrate how to address various workflows we'll take a look at a few sample integrations:</em></p>    <ul>     <li><em>Integrating Paper.js to preview 2D geometry</em> </li>      <li><em>Integrating Three.js to preview 3D geometry</em> </li>      <li><em>Integrating Isomer for isometric previews of 3D geometry</em> </li>      <li><em>Integrating ShapeShifter to preview and import highly complex 3D geometry</em> </li>   </ul> </blockquote>  <p>The second is about integrating sensor data into AutoCAD via a SensorTag device:</p>  <blockquote>   <h4>Using SensorTag as a low-cost sensor array for AutoCAD</h4>    <p><em>Texas Instruments launched the SensorTag in 2012. It’s a $25 sensor array that communicates via Bluetooth Smart (aka Bluetooth 4.0 or Bluetooth LE) with smartphones or PCs. The SensorTag contains temperature, humidity and pressure sensors along with an accelerometer, a gyroscope and a magnetometer. And a couple of physical buttons, for good measure. SensorTags are often used as the basis for weather stations and health monitors, but what possibilities exist for integrating this technology with design tools? This session looks at the data you can get from a SensorTag and how it might be integrated with Autodesk software. It looks at the steps to connect a SensorTag with smartphone and Windows apps as well as use-cases such as using accelerometer and gyroscope data to manipulate the current 3D view in AutoCAD.</em></p> </blockquote>  <p>Hopefully one or the other will be accepted for the conference. I’m also toying with the idea of hosting a bloggers roundtable, but we’ll see if I end up submitting that prior to the May 23rd deadline.</p>  <p>In related news, yesterday I was told that advance conference passes for AU are now on sale for $1,575 – a discount of $600 over the price from August 20th ($2,175). Here’s what I tweeted:</p>  <blockquote lang="en" class="twitter-tweet">   <p>Advance passes for <a href="https://twitter.com/search?q=%23AU2014&amp;src=hash">#AU2014</a> available from today (until Aug 19) at a $600 discount! <a href="http://t.co/L2xpSq3j9z">http://t.co/L2xpSq3j9z</a></p> — Kean Walmsley (@keanw) <a href="https://twitter.com/keanw/statuses/463723287366086658">May 6, 2014</a></blockquote> <script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>  <p>One great feature of this pass is the ability to sign up for classes and hotel accommodation a week earlier than people who register after the August 20th deadline. And if you’re not sure who from your company will be able to attend, you can buy a pass now and assign it to a specific person at a later date.</p>
