---
layout: "post"
title: "Welcome"
date: "2008-08-21 17:34:21"
author: "Adam Nagy"
categories:
  - "Announcements"
  - "Brian"
original_url: "https://modthemachine.typepad.com/my_weblog/2008/08/welcome.html "
typepad_basename: "welcome"
typepad_status: "Publish"
---

<p class="MsoNormal" style="MARGIN: 0in 0in 3pt"><span face="Calibri">Welcome to <em>Mod the Machine</em>, a blog for those interested in Autodesk Inventor’s API (Application Programming Interface).<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>First, you’re probably wondering what’s the deal with the name of this blog.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>I was recently introduced to gaming by some colleagues here at Autodesk for the Friday evening game of <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wolfenstein:_Enemy_Territory">Wolfenstein – Enemy Territory</a></span><span face="Calibri">.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>I learned that it’s possible to download enhancements to the game and these enhancements are called modifications or <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mod_%28computer_gaming%29"><em>mods</em></a></span><span face="Calibri">.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>If we apply this gaming terminology to Inventor, you’re writing mods for Inventor when you customize it. The “Machine” portion of the name indicates this is a manufacturing related blog, and in this case will mostly be limited to Autodesk Inventor.</span></p>

<p class="MsoNormal" style="MARGIN: 0in 0in 3pt"><span face="Calibri">Now to introduce myself; I’ve been with Autodesk for 10 years and am part of the Inventor API development team.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>My primary role is as a product designer which means I specify what Inventor’s programming interface will look like.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>I share this role with a couple of colleagues (Sanjay Ramaswamy and Venkatesh Thiyagarajan). In addition to product design I also get to work with customers and developers to learn more about their programming requirements and help them in their use of the API.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>This blog is also a new endeavor in this role.</span></p>

<p class="MsoNormal" style="MARGIN: 0in 0in 3pt"><span face="Calibri">I got started in CAD back in 1977 when my high school drafting class went on a field trip to Brigham Young University to learn more about their CAD related degree.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>I was hooked with the first demo.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Not too much later I was in the program at BYU, which was essentially mechanical engineering with a CAD focus.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>After graduation I worked at Intergraph where I spent the first 9 years working as an application engineer.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>All of this time I never thought of myself as a programmer but as a CAD user that liked to write the occasional program.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>When Intergraph began developing Solid Edge they asked me to design the programming interface.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>I didn’t feel qualified since I wasn’t a programmer, but they said they didn’t want a programmer to design it but wanted it to have more of an end-user focus.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>That began my involvement in the CAD API world which continues today.</span></p>

<p class="MsoNormal" style="MARGIN: 0in 0in 3pt"><span face="Calibri">I see CAD as a very powerful and useful tool for various types of design but in many cases the off-the-shelf product isn’t quite what you need.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>By providing a programming interface, Inventor allows you to customize it to be the “perfect” CAD system for you.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Much of my focus in this blog will be to those CAD users looking at programming to try and make their job easier.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span></span></p>

<p class="MsoNormal" style="MARGIN: 0in 0in 3pt"><span face="Calibri">If you have ideas for topics please email them to me at </span><a href="mailto:brian.ekins@autodesk.com"><span face="Calibri">brian.ekins@autodesk.com</span></a><span face="Calibri">.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Of course you shouldn’t consider this blog or emails as a support mechanism because there’s no guarantee that I’ll get to all of the topics, but I would like to hear your ideas and comments.</span></p>
