---
layout: "post"
title: "One more position of API evangelist in Shanghai!"
date: "2014-07-06 06:42:02"
author: "Xiaodong Liang"
categories: []
original_url: "https://adndevblog.typepad.com/aec/2014/07/one-more-position-of-api-evangelist-in-shanghai.html "
typepad_basename: "one-more-position-of-api-evangelist-in-shanghai"
typepad_status: "Publish"
---

<p>By <a href="http://adndevblog.typepad.com/aec/xiaodong-liang.html" target="_self">Xiaodong Liang</a></p>  <p>One more opportunity in opened in Developer Technical Service (DevTech), Autodesk. The location is in <strong>Shanghai</strong>. </p>  <p>DevTech is responsible for evangelizing Autodesk technology to support the growth of the network, to help Autodesk partners become successful and to positively impact Autodesk’s business. </p>  <p>DevTech China team is leading the evangelism of API for Chinese customers as well as global customers in various products. We are also transitioning to the cloud and will provide APIs through cloud-based services in the future. So, this position is not only to evangelize API support for the existing products, but will also support the API of cloud &amp; mobile. </p>  <p>We are looking for a guy who is great enthusiastic to the new technologies and love to engage in helping our customers to achieve more successes. </p>  <p>Those who work or study abroad want to pursue their career in China are also welcome!   <br />&#160; <br /><strong>Principal Duties and Responsibilities</strong></p>  <ul>   <li>You will develop technical content for the ADN program including technical notes and whitepapers. Content is published on ADN blogs and used for conferences and technical marketing events.     <br />Write extensive sample code that demonstrates API usage and best practice. Documenting your code is essential for knowledge transfer.</li>    <li>Develop and deliver training courses and/or presentations internally and to ADN members. Topics include APIs, and/or other software-development related topics.</li>    <li>Assist with technical marketing activities including presentations and event participation. Examples may include Autodesk University, or Game Developer Conference.</li>    <li>Use your knowledge of Autodesk product APIs to assist ADN members with their business objectives of providing value-added software. Assist with their software design by providing them with technical information on Autodesk APIs and technologies. Help resolve technical issues including communicating the functions of the API. Assist with API questions.</li>    <li>Work with internal product development engineering teams worldwide to help resolve customer and developer issues. Act as a liaison between engineering and ADN members by helping to evaluate and influence new product releases to help meet the needs of the ADN community. Submit defect and product enhancement reports and work closely with engineering to ensure appropriate resolution of issues impacting customer satisfaction.</li> </ul> <strong>   <p>     <br /></p> </strong>  <p><strong>Requirements</strong></p> <strong></strong>  <ul>   <li>A bachelors' degree or higher in computer science or related field. </li>    <li> Intelligent mind and ability to quickly learn new software development technologies and one or more of the Autodesk main products.</li>    <li>Fluent oral English and good written English is a MUST.     <br />Love programming.</li>    <li> At least 2 years hands-on programming experience. (including time in University)</li>    <li>Experience or comprehensive knowledge of web programming.</li>    <li> Familiar with at least one popular programming language, C++/C#/VB.NET/JavaScript</li>    <li>Good skills of communication with colleagues and customers.</li>    <li>Good team player: Easy to work with team members across various cultures.</li>    <li>Ability of presenting fluently in public.</li> </ul>  <p><strong>Preferred Qualifications</strong></p>  <ul>   <li>Experience of industry (building or manufacturing) background is a good value. </li>    <li>Experience of programming on AutoCAD or Revit is a great value.</li>    <li>Cloud programming technologies, such as Amazon, Azure etc. (experience or willing to learn) </li>    <li>Mobile programming technologies, such as Android, iOS etc. (experience or willing to learn)</li> </ul>  <p>If you think you are qualified to this position, please contact us. Send your resume, anything else that you view as interesting for us to know to: <a href="Xiaodong.liang@autodesk.com">Xiaodong.liang@autodesk.com</a>&#160; , Thanks! </p>
