---
layout: "post"
title: "Autodesk is hiring an AEC API evangelist in Beijing or Shanghai!"
date: "2014-07-03 03:53:50"
author: "Xiaodong Liang"
categories: []
original_url: "https://adndevblog.typepad.com/aec/2014/07/autodesk-is-hiring-an-aec-api-evangelist-in-beijing-or-shanghai.html "
typepad_basename: "autodesk-is-hiring-an-aec-api-evangelist-in-beijing-or-shanghai"
typepad_status: "Publish"
---

<p>By <a href="http://adndevblog.typepad.com/aec/xiaodong-liang.html" target="_self">Xiaodong Liang</a></p>  <p>This is an exciting opportunity to be part of Developer Technical Services team in Autodesk in <font color="#232323"><strong>Shanghai or Beijing</strong></font>. This postion provides consulting services to worldwide <a href="http://usa.autodesk.com/adsk/servlet/index?id=472012&amp;siteID=123112">Autodesk Developer Network (ADN)</a> members and developers of third-party applications based on Autodesk products and Autodesk Cloud Platforms. </p>  <p>You will be responsible for evangelizing Autodesk technology to support the growth of the network, to help Autodesk partners become successful and to positively impact Autodesk’s business. You will provide technical assistance including software design, customization, integration, orientation/training and technical problem resolution.    <br />    <br />We have a breadth of AEC software such as Revit. We are also transitioning to the cloud and will be providing APIs through those cloud-based services in the future. We are looking for someone to provide evangelistic API support for Revit, and we also hope to find someone excited by the coming world in the cloud.&#160; </p>  <p>Those who work or study abroad want to pursue their career in China are also welcome!</p>  <p><strong>Requirements</strong></p>  <ul>   <li>A bachelors' degree or higher in computer science, architecture, civil engineering or related field. </li>    <li>At least 2 years hands-on programming experience (including time in University). </li>    <li>Intelligent mind and ability to quickly learn new software development technologies and one or more of the Autodesk main products. Enthusiastic in experimenting and writing sample code. </li>    <li>Familiar with at least one popular programming language, C++/C#/VB.NET/JavaScript etc. </li>    <li>Ability to troubleshoot software and programming problems. The understanding of techniques to debug software will be of great value. </li>    <li>Written and verbal English skills are important. Ability to be patient and communicate across cultures. Other language fluency is also a great asset. </li>    <li>Enjoy interacting with people – including one-on-one conversations and presenting to audiences at conferences. </li>    <li>Good team player: Easy to work with team members across various cultures. </li>    <li> The experience in Revit API is highly preferred.</li> </ul>  <p>   <br /><strong>Preferred Qualifications </strong></p>  <ul>   <li>Experience with Autodesk products and their APIs, such as Revit, Navisworks and AutoCAD will be valuable. </li>    <li>Web and Cloud technologies, such as JavaScript, REST, HTML 5, Amazon Web Services, Azure, will be plus. </li> </ul>  <ul>   <li>Mobile programming technologies, such as Android and iOS will be plus.&#160; </li> </ul>  <p>If you think you are qualified to this position, please contact us. Send your resume, anything else that you view as interesting for us to know to: <a href="mailto:Xiaodong.liang@autodesk.com">Xiaodong.liang@autodesk.com</a> . Thanks!     </p>
